


I: And so I will now show you this picture of this ladder. Uh as you can see there are 10 rungs. Um think of these ladders as representing where people stand in the United States. At the top of the ladder are the people who are the best off - those who have the most money, the most education, and the most respected jobs. At the bottom are the people who are the worst off - who have the least money, least education, and the least respected jobs or no job. The higher up you are on this ladder, the closer you are to the people at the very top; the lower you are, the closer you are to the people at the very bottom. Where would you place yourself on this ladder now, compared to other people in the United States? Please choose the rung of the ladder that represents where you think you stand at this time in your life, relative to other people in the United States. 


P: maybe 8, yeah


I: 8. Okay, um so why did you choose 8 to represent where you are, instead of a higher rung or a lower rung??


P: okay, uh me and my wife, we both graduated from the best university China. 我们俩都是北大的。然后here, well, we have a master’s degree here, but not PhD. If I got a PhD or something, I can get 9 or something, but we have, me and wife we total have like 5 master’s degrees, including China’s, okay? And we are in, we are making decent money, yeah not top one, but we are making decent money, we work at big companies, and yeah. We live in a good school district, and yeah I believe we are in the level of 7 or 8.


I: okay. Okay, uh how did you come to be at this position on the ladder? What has helped you to get to an 8 instead of a lower rung, or what has prevented you from being at a higher number?


P: education, yeah. 


I: could you elaborate more on what you mean by that, like your-


P: yeah I said we graduated from the best university in China, and it’s easier for us to apply to school here, we just come to America as student, so then we get a degree here, then we find our jobs, and just yeah. We have lived here for more than 20 years, so yeah. We will study hard, we work hard, yeah. That’s how we get here.


I: OK, then where do you think you were on this ladder five years ago? 


P: 5 years ago? Maybe 7
I: okay, why would you say 7?


P: The career development, okay? Yeah. Now is better than 5 years ago. We have more savings, and our kids getting older. Yeah 


I: okay, uh why do you think- well I guess you already answered that.



I: now we would like to ask you some questions about race and ethnicity. So overall, where do you think the following racial ethnic groups stand on this ladder? I will name a few. Again, at the top of the ladder are those who have the most money, the most education, and the most respected jobs. At the bottom are the people who are the worst off - who have the least money, least education, and the least respected jobs or no job. Um so to start, where do you think most Hispanic or Latino Americans are on this ladder? 


P: Hispanic and Latino… maybe 4 or 5- no well, hold on, I saw a lot of like Latino- they didn’t come here legally, they are doing lowest paid jobs, and that’s like 2 or 3, I think. I know a few people. But during my work yeah I also see a few guys working at similar positions as me but, uh, when you say Latinos do you mean something like the second generation, or third generation, or first generation? 


I: Uh just any living in the US. 


P: Okay yea, maybe a 4 yeah, maybe a 4. 


I: Okay. okay, and then how- where do you think that most White Americans are on this ladder? 


P: You say White Americans? 9. 


I: 9? Okay. Where do you think most Asian Americans are on this ladder? 


P: I believe there are two levels. Someone come here, like, well educated, they are more likely 7 or 8. But there are also someone they are doing some low-level jobs, those are like 3 or 4, yeah. 


I: Okay, and then where do you think most Black Americans are on this ladder? 


P: Black? Um, 4 or 5, yeah. 


I: Okay. Um so now I will ask you some questions about them in the order I just asked. So how did Hispanic get to the- 4 position on the ladder? What keeps them from getting high on the ladder or what prevents them from lower? 


P: Yeah I think education. They don’t like Chinese, Asian people- Asian people they are willing to spend money on education for their kids, they spend a lot of effort. But I know some Spanish people, they just- they don’t care a lot about education. 


I: Alright, then how did White people get to a 9 on this ladder? What prevents them from being higher or what prevents them from being lower? 


P: Yeah, they were born here, they were educated here, they know more about this society, they know the regulations. Like- it’s their culture, the society’s regulations are based on the white culture, so they are more fit in this system, yeah. 


I: Alright, then for the Asian American group, you said that there were two kind of groups. How did some get to a 7 or 8 on the ladder? And what prevents them from being higher or lower. And similarly how did some o f them get to a 3 or 4, and why are they not lower or higher on the ladder? 


P: Well again I still think that education play the most important part. For those 7 or 8, they are like- education. And also the culture. Asian people are like- mostly they are working hard, we care about families and the tradition, we have- the traditional value tells us to stay- like family man, family woman, yeah take care of their kids. That makes people like grow up, okay. There are some other- on the other hand they are like not very well educated, and Asian culture have some thing like..hm..have some features not very decent, okay like they want to take advantage of the government, like the [00:1105 inaudible], the insurance or something okay. Those people are not very decent, okay, that’s why I give them 4 or 5. 


I: Alright, and then how do you think that most Black Americans got to a 4 or 5 on the ladder? What prevents them from being higher or lower on the ladder? 


P: Yea, that’s education and culture okay. Uh and also- yea the system also have play an important part okay. Um, first they don’t- I know Black American they don’t care too much about education, so they live in the bad neighborhood. And they don’t have a clear path to go up, they can- I know there are two- there are only like two possible ways for Black Americans to go up like- one is sports one is [00:12:22 inaudible]. Okay for the rest they are- it’s hard for them to stand up. Yeah. 





I： Where would you like your child to be when they are your age?


00:13:18
P： First I want them to live a happy, happy Life, OK, to feel happy in their heart, OK, to do something valuable not only financially but also like mentally and morally. I want them to be to be able to feel like they are part of this society, OK, not like us, we work we come here like we will raised in a different culture. No matter how hard we try we still feel like we don't quite belong to this society, OK, but for them, for my daughter for my son, they were born here, so they know more about this society I want them to be able to feel integrated with the whole society.


00:14:25
I： OK so then, in terms of money where would you want Jasmine to be relative to others in the US


00:14:30
P： they don't have to be super rich OK but the kind of middle or upper class would be fine. 


00:14:50
I： yeah so would you say that's like a seven or eight?


00:14:52
P： Like an 8 Yeah.


00:15:05
I： OK, so then, in terms of education where would you want Jasmine to be relative to others?


00:15:10
P：9 or 10.


00:15:16
I：9 or 10. Ok so why would you choose 9/10 instead of a higher rung or a lower rung?


00:15:20
P：Well, just. I think like we are Asian people and we pay more attention to education. OK, we want them to be well educated we want them to be able to have their own thinking, they know how to tell right and wrong, they know how to manage their, like, life, their marriage, their family. OK, so with a better education, I think it's easier for them to learn something new, to be wise, to learn to live their life


I: okay, so then in terms of jobs, we would like to ask the question in a different way. What do you consider to be a good job that you hope your child will have? Um for example, provide general qualities of good jobs, or specific examples of a job with those qualities.


P: Um, I think that mostly depends on themselves, okay. Something they like to do, something not tedious, not repetitive like labor work. Something they can learn, they can improve themselves in the work, yeah. Uh, for example some research, or college professors, or yeah, or doctors. Yeah, mhm, yeah something they can learn, they can help others, make their, they can feel their life to be meaningful


I: okay, and lastly what do you consider a bad job that you hope your child will not obtain as an adult?


P: uh, something tedious like a cashier, or waiter/waitress, yeah. Or some labor work. 


I: Uh okay, so that concludes our portion of the interview…
